---
layout: post
title:      "Taking the Leap"
date:       2019-02-28 02:59:48 +0000
permalink:  taking_the_leap
---


A few years after graduating college and entering the working world, once the initial ~~shock~~ excitement wore off, I found myself wanting something more. I wanted to continue to learn, grow, and expand my pool of knowledge. I was – and still am – working as an engineer in a fast-paced manufacturing environment and I was content with the work I was doing but I was still searching for something that would go beyond that and provide true passion towards my work. For the better part of the last two years, I have been looking into multiple options that I thought might help me achieve this: continuing my engineering education in the US or abroad, attempting to get back into a design engineering position (which my university studies were based around), or seeking a position similar to my current one but in a new city. All of these seemed to be temporary fixes; the excitement of just doing something new would eventually fade and I’d be right back where I was. In the midst of all this, I happened to stumble upon Codeacademy and, on a whim, started working my way through some of their introduction to software development lessons (taking advantage of their “PRO” service 7 day free trial). Right away, I was hooked. I finally felt more than that “contentment” I was looking to overcome and looked forward to working through a few lessons each day – even after the more-often-than-not long, grueling days at work! At that point, I knew the software development route was an option I should throw into the ring. As I began my research into the coding world, I began to realize it checked a lot of the boxes on my list.

Within a few days of really buckling down and diving into learning some basic coding on my own, it became apparent to me that the stereotypical image people often associate with programmers – the lone-wolf sitting in a dark room coding for hours on end and polishing off some Mountain Dew in the process – couldn’t be further from the truth. Whether it be through my Google searches to understand various concepts or talking to friends involved with software development, I began noticing that virtually everyone within the coding community was friendly, eager to offer their knowledge, and lend a helping hand whenever possible. They were genuinely interested in collaborating with their peers and enjoying their love of coding together. The passion that so obviously drove everyone that I came across was infectious. I found myself fully prepared to get the show on the road with the hope that I can soon be a contributing member to the lovely programming world.

A second, albeit important, driving factor that drove me toward this transition was the parallels I saw between the engineering skills I have been developing for a few years now and the skills required to successfully pursue a career in software development. Most obvious of these skills is the need for a logical approach to technical problem solving. On a daily basis, I’m asked to think critically to determine root cause and (hopefully) find the solutions to problems that arise, which is an aspect of my work that I thoroughly enjoy. During my brief time as a growing developer, the need for this skill is evident. However, while my current work and software developing both require an ability to think critically and logically, developing has something that my current work lacks – the opportunity to **create**. 

Mechanical design was a major part of my university studies and this allowed me to access the more creative side of my brain. However, since joining the working world I have, unfortunately, gotten into roles that have been less imaginative in nature. This is something that I had been hoping to bring back into my daily working life and I believe software development will satisfy this hunger. The potential to fulfill my more creative desires are apparent when looking around at the endless applications being dream up from scratch by developers today or simply working through a lab and seeing the countless ways others solved the same lab. In time, I hope to be able to make my own contributions through some beautifully unique application development.

And last but most certainly not least, coding is just...FUN. There are few things that would be able to keep me from collapsing onto the couch after a 10 hour day at work and watching The Office for the 5th time, but the coding lessons I have been working through are able to do just that. One such day I vividly remember was when I was working through the “Rock Dodger” lab from Flatiron’s bootcamp prep course. I was eager to get home after work and finish the lab and when I finally did, I ran into the next room and forced my girlfriend to play a few rounds of the game I had just created – it was a great feeling! Don’t get me wrong, the minor errors that frequently arise while coding (i.e. typos or missing “end” commands) that prevent your program from functioning can be infuriating. However, being able to successfully work through these issues and ultimately be able to run the program successfully makes all of that become (mostly) forgotten.

There is no doubt a long and tiring journey ahead of me down this road to becoming a software developer but I couldn’t be more excited. I’m optimistic I’ll be able to develop the necessary skills that will allow me to become a full fledged member of the coding community and I cannot wait for that day to come. Happy coding!
